that you're seeing revealed for
the first time at this conference.
We're going to describe
what those developments are,
review some of the things that
you've seen in previous sessions,
and amplify on them as well.
We're also going to preview some
of the more in-depth technical
sessions that follow mostly tomorrow,
and I'll be directing you to
what those sessions are and
what content they'll contain.
So this is the omnibus
for QuickTime in Tiger.
What you'll learn is what
QuickTime offers to you,
the application developer for
media services that you can use.
will give you some examples of
applications that already use
QuickTime so you can get some ideas
of how you can use it as well.
Talk in depth about what's new and
improved and for the first time
on any stage we'll talk in depth
about how you can take advantage of
new ways to use QuickTime in both
Carbon and Cocoa apps starting in Tiger.
Where does QuickTime fit
in on Mac OS X platform?
You've seen several versions
of the architecture diagram for
the entire OS this week already,
and you've seen QuickTime mostly among
the imaging modules in that diagram.
Here I've blown up a portion of that
architecture diagram to show you that
QuickTime sits on top of imaging,
video,
and audio services on the platform.
It's an integration layer that gives
you access to digital media services,
and it in turn makes use of
these lower-level services that
also have APIs that you can use.
and other companies.
To amplify, what does QuickTime offer?
Not just playback.
Most of the time when you
come to a conference like
this and you see QuickTime,
we're going to play you
really cool content.
This session goes beyond that
to show that the services that
QuickTime offers are complete.
It's a full media architecture.
Creation of media, editing of media,
capture from external devices,
and delivery via the web, via streaming,
via CD or DVD ROM.
QuickTime offers all of that.
Now, from time to time we get into
discussions about what we mean when we
say QuickTime because QuickTime actually
has been around for a while.
It was introduced in early 1991,
originally available for
system Mac OS 607 and system 7.
I just had to check with Jim because
I'm never sure about which 6 it was.
But in fact it was 607.
Over the years the term QuickTime has
been applied to several different things.
I've got a list of what
some of them are now.
QuickTime is in fact an end user product.
QuickTime Pro which is
available from Apple's website.
You can buy from there.
QuickTime is also a media
container format known as the
QuickTime movie file format.
And in fact it's achieved great
success in the industry as
the basis for the MPEG-4 file
format and related file formats,
3G as well.
So, let's get started.
Container format.
We can put video and audio in
there and some other things too.
QuickTime is also a media solution.
There are several products
that work together.
QuickTime Pro, QuickTime Broadcaster,
QuickTime streaming server and
the QuickTime plug-in for the
internet browsers that allow you
to produce and deliver media.
But what we're talking about specifically
in this session is the technology that
you can use in your applications to
put media services to work for you.
There are several sets of
APIs that are available.
APIs, C APIs that QuickTime has
offered over the years and you
see some of their names here.
Movie Toolbox, set of high level APIs for
playing and editing media.
Image Compression Manager allows
you to compress and decompress
still images or sequences of images.
And a number of other
component APIs as well,
some of which I'll talk
about later in the session.
will be a theme that I'll come back to.
Actually the themes of this
session if you must know are
what would they say we were?
They were classification and reordering.
So every time you hear something
that relates to classification and
reordering if you could make some
sort of sign that you're still awake
just that would be good for me because
it is 5 o'clock on Wednesday and
this is a tough slot to fill.
But anyway this session is about
the API so with no further ado let's
talk about QuickTime APIs at work
in existing applications today.
So on demo one I have one of my
favorite applications particularly
when I'm away from home,
Mail.
Mail is a mail application.
It does wonderful stuff.
It allows you to find your email
messages to file them and to read them.
But one of the other things that
Mail does is it allows you to exchange
media from one email server to another.
If I could have demo one up
please that would be handy.
Thank you.
So here I have,
what have I got in my email now?
I just launched this app a minute ago.
something from home.
In Mail,
and in fact in a number of applications,
you can put media, digital media,
in line with other content.
Mail uses the QuickTime APIs in
order to play video and audio.
Here I have, let's see, what do we got?
That's nice, thank you.
I'll be home soon kids, don't worry.
Well, that's just one example of an
application that allows you to embed
media together with other content.
If you have a document-based
application and you want to use digital
media together with other content,
use QuickTime.
It's a perfect solution.
Let's see, another application that uses
digital media is Keynote.
Keynote goes a few steps beyond, however,
what an application like Mail does.
Sure enough,
I can create a new presentation
in Keynote and I can take some
digital media that I happen to have
handy and I can drop it in there
and I can play my digital media
content inside my presentation.
But this is actually not
All that remarkable,
this has been done in a number of
applications for a number of years.
Keynote takes it quite
a few steps beyond.
What I would actually like to do
here is create a new presentation
and this time I want to choose
one of those interesting themes,
the Blackboard theme,
and I want to take that same movie
that I put on my other slide.
and let's make this a blank master and
I think what I want to do here is to make
my movie occupy the entire slide let's
see that would be 1260 by 768 and I want
that positioned at zero zero alright
so there I now have a full screen uh...
slide with a movie in the background
[Transcript missing]
The Red-Tailed Hawk.
This Red-Tailed Hawk has been showing up
in our backyard for the last week or so.
And one morning while
I was drinking my coffee,
there it was.
So I just grabbed my DV25
camera and there you go,
live from my backyard actually,
stored the Red-Tailed Hawk.
What I really want to do
here is have some bullets.
I'm going to cover the habitat
of the Red-Tailed Hawk.
I'm going to cover the markings.
I did very well in the fifth grade,
by the way, in case you can't tell.
And I want to cover the
call of the Red-Tailed Hawk.
And I want to give these items, oh,
I want to give them some...
[Transcript missing]
but the video you know it's kinda bright
the sun was shining the day that I shot
this video so what I really want to
do is to dial down the opacity of that
video because I really want that to
be in the background then when I play
my video it's going to show up like this
You can see in the lower left
there a preview of my presentation.
Then when I click,
my bullets are just going to
come in right over my video,
which plays in the background.
But you really want to
see this full screen,
don't you?
[Transcript missing]
doesn't have to be the WWDC.
Now we get it.
Now when I play my presentation Oh,
I got it wrong.
I'll show it to you downstairs
in the QuickTime lab,
but this movie will play full screen
with the bullet points dropping down
with full resolution and full frame rate.
So Keynote goes further than an
application that simply embeds media.
It combines digital media with
other features that it has.
It's support for transparency.
It's support for builds and transitions.
Digital video and audio work
seamlessly with that in Keynote and
it's all done by means of QuickTime.
Okay, back to slides please.
So I hope I've convinced you that
it's worthwhile for you to use
QuickTime APIs in your applications
to gain that sort of feature
that I demonstrated just now.
If I had managed to convince you
of that only two years ago at WWDC,
your application would have gained
value without you having to do
anything between then and now.
Because the APIs that you would have put
to work in your application then would
have given you access to an increased
number of media container formats,
video formats,
and audio formats as new versions of
QuickTime have been released by Apple.
In just the QuickTime 6
series of releases,
we've added support for MPEG-4, for 3G,
for JPEG-2000.
We've added support for external devices,
better support for DV,
support for IIDC cameras.
That's the Industrial and
Instrumentation Digital Camera Standard.
I'm glad I got that right after
the failure of the keynote demo.
[Transcript missing]
Graphics processing.
We found, and we've mentioned
several times at the show,
that the graphics processor, the GPU,
that is in every machine that we sell,
and also many of the machines
that are sold by other vendors,
is valuable not just in the
original domain for which
those things were developed,
but also for other types of applications.
Finally,
what else is going on in the industry?
We're noticing that you guys
writing your applications are using
these application frameworks and
getting a lot of leverage from them.
Nice of us to notice that.
What are we going to
do in response to that?
I'll tell you in a moment.
Okay.
Tough crowd.
All right.
So let's go through
those topics one by one.
What's happening with video?
By way of analogy,
I intend to explain to you how video
encoding has become more complex and what
we need to do in QuickTime to be able
to support more complicated encoding.
So I can't get you to respond.
I can't make it interactive.
Let's play a game.
We're going to play which
one of these is different.
Okay, a flip book,
by which I mean a book with each page
of which has an image either printed
or drawn and as you flip through
it you get the effective animation.
A reel of motion picture film,
actual celluloid,
they still use it in some theaters.
Each frame is on the strip of film.
DV25, what's that?
Well, that's the most common format of
digital video supported by your
DV camera that you can buy down at
Good Guys whatever guys you happen
to have in the area that you live in.
[Transcript missing]
Now we're going to play
the advanced version.
Which one is different this time?
narrative, analepsis and prolepsis,
which of course are the terms for
narrative flashback and flashforward.
Oh, thank you.
Did you just scratch your
head or did you mean to?
A schedule of automobile maintenance
the romantic poets by which of course
I am referring to the romantic poets
in the poetic tradition as described by
Harold Bloom in his 1973 book The Anxiety
of Influence in which he posited that
a young poet can actually seek to gain
priority over his predecessor by means
of several tropes which he describes one
of which is the trope of substitution by
substituting an earliness for a lateness.
But I'm going to give
it away if I keep going.
MPEG-2 video.
another type of digital video MPEG-2,
another type of digital video coding.
Finally, a presentation based on Keynote.
Well,
I'm sure it's all clear since I belabored
the point on the Romantic Poets that
what's different here is the schedule
of automobile maintenance because in
that case you have a sequence of things,
each of which is only dependent on
the things that have come before.
You only go to have the 100,000 mile
maintenance after you've already
done the 75,000 mile maintenance,
right?
But these other things are sequences
in which items may have dependencies
on things that come before or things
that come after or at least the
Romantic Poets hoped that this was true.
So if none of these analogies
was effective to you,
I will appeal to your stomach since
it's getting close to dinner time.
After you learn what all the sharp
implements in the kitchen are for,
the Culinary Institute,
they eventually reveal to you that you
do not necessarily prepare courses for
a high-class multi-course meal in the
same order in which you serve them.
And why is this true?
They take, well,
I don't know why I never went
to the Culinary Institute,
but I do know about this.
The same thing is true
of modern video coding.
Video frames are encoded and decoded
in not necessarily the same order in
which they are intended to be displayed.
And why is this a good thing?
Well, it enables us to get better quality
out of comparable frame rates.
Let's talk about an example.
Suppose I have a sequence of
video which starts with one frame
and ends with another frame,
and all of the intermediate
frames are a wipe effect.
It just wipes from left to right
from one image to the other.
Well, if I need to encode
that sequence of frames,
each frame revealing more
and more of the final image,
then if I can only depend on
images that are not the same,
then I can only encode the sequence
of frames that are not the same.
If I can only depend on
images that have come before,
with each frame,
I have to waste some of my bits, well,
I have to apply some of my bits to the
portion of the final image that has
become revealed as the wipe progresses.
But if I have a video coding
which allows me to depend on both
the first and the last frame...
Well, then that's much easier.
The wipe, the intermediate frames
will require much,
many fewer bits in order to
code the differences between
the first and the final frame.
Well, that's basically how we're
achieving higher quality with
comparable frame rates in video.
The bad news is when we
shipped QuickTime 1.0 in
1991 for System 607 and 7.0,
we did not accommodate this model for
video coding in our video support.
What I like to say is that there were no
master chefs working on QuickTime 1.0.
They only came along later.
But in QuickTime 1.0, as you can see,
we had this limitation.
And this limitation was
reflected by the APIs.
So you could only compress video
for which frames would be completely
independent or which would only have
dependencies on frames that you had
previously presented for compression.
but in QuickTime 6.6,
the version that you have
in your Tiger preview,
that SDK that I think they
gave out earlier this week,
we finally have support for video
frames whose decode order and
display order can be distinct.
Now this is a great thing because
it allows us to play modern
video formats such as H.264,
but it allows us to do more than that.
I will say we support IP and B-frames
for those of you who are technical.
The reason that this is wonderful
and amazing is that we have
applied all of the richness of
the QuickTime media architecture
to this type of video encoding.
So let me show you over here
on demo one what I mean.
Let me open up some of
my Hawk movies again.
I'm going to open them up
with QuickTime Player 651,
both because I want to make a
point and also because the new
player that's in the tiger seed
doesn't quite run the Apple script
that I'm about to run for you.
and I have some H.264 encoded video
clips of the hawk in my backyard.
and what I can do with these video clips
since I've got QuickTime Player Pro is
I can copy these things and combine
them together into another movie.
I've got different encoding
rates on these different clips,
but copy and paste of these various
clips works just as you would
expect it to work with QuickTime.
And so now I have a single movie that
plays those three clips back to back.
Well, that's pretty good,
but it doesn't quite go far
enough to demonstrate the point.
So let's go back to that
Apple script that I mentioned.
It's called MovieMincer.
And what does it do?
Movie mincer is probably the most
fearsome thing to a QuickTime engineer
right here at 5 o'clock on a
Wednesday afternoon at WWDC because
what I'm going to do with this
script is to select at random,
at random mind you,
20 two-second segments from a movie
which is itself pasted together from
three separate clips and I'm going
to take those two-second segments at
random and put them into another movie.
I do not know what will happen,
ladies and gentlemen.
I require complete silence.
It's kind of fast on a G5, I like that.
So now that I have pasted together, well,
AppleScript has pasted together
these twenty two-segment
segments chosen at random,
remember now these video frames can have
dependencies on frames that come after
them or frames that come before them.
And there's a very complicated
graph of dependencies if you go
through the sequence of video frames
in these various H.264 movies.
Now I've chosen at random where these
clips should start and stop that I've
pasted from one movie to another.
I don't know if I started in an
I frame or a B frame or a... I don't
know what frames I started at.
If I paste them all together,
how is QuickTime going to figure out
how to decode these frames which may
have dependencies on other frames which
may not have gotten pasted into the
destination... I don't know how it works.
I'm just gonna play the movie.
Every two seconds I should see another
clip from those various movies.
This, I think,
is probably the most impressive
technology demo that you're
going to see at the show.
That's not a joke.
This is really remarkable.
This is live, in-place editing of this
very complex video stream.
And a nice looking hawk too.
All right, back to slides.
So we don't just support
playback of B-frame video.
We support all that other cool
stuff that I talked about earlier.
Now, I was copying and pasting with the,
what do they call it,
pasteboard in Mac OS X?
But you can also insert
media via low-level APIs.
An application like iMovie is combining
media from multiple sources by means
of the very same technology that you
saw me demonstrate via copy and paste.
this is really pretty cool stuff.
Now in order to accomplish this,
we did have to introduce new
APIs because we had the limitations
that I mentioned earlier.
We have new in the image compression
manager that I mentioned earlier,
we have new compression and
decompression APIs to support this
notion of video frames that can have
distinct display and decode orderings.
also at the level of media creation
and media access we needed new
APIs to carry the data about
decode and display order as well.
So at those levels there
are new APIs available.
The very good news is,
and here's the other reason why
I used QuickTime Player 651,
to demonstrate that the high-level
APIs for movie playback and movie
editing are unchanged even though
we have support for this new stuff.
So the old player,
the one with the currently
shipping QuickTime,
those features work with
the new media content.
And the same thing will be true
in your applications as well.
but it's not just the APIs that
we're changing to accommodate
this new cool video stuff.
We're also expanding the QuickTime movie
file format to accommodate it as well.
If you are doing reading of the
QuickTime movie file format,
if you're opening up movie
files and reading the bytes in
there and interpreting them,
you will definitely want to get on
the QuickTime seed and I believe
the email address for the seed
is not what I have up here.
They both work.
You can send to this address
if you want to be part of the
QuickTime seeding program in addition to
the Tiger seeding that you have received.
I recommend that you send
to this email address.
Now, another point I want to make about
the QuickTime movie file format.
In the preview of Tiger that you possess,
not all of the details that are
changing about the QuickTime movie
file format are final.
So, this preview is not for use
for production purposes.
Don't go out and start making movies
that you want to put on the web and
have them playable indefinitely.
Use Panther for that.
We will finalize those details, I'm sure,
by the time Tiger ships.
Alright, what about more information?
I've given you some of the technology
details but only at a very high level
of what's new in video in QuickTime.
Where do you go to find out more?
I'm recommending two places.
There is a document that
is available to you in your
Tiger SEED and is also available
via the Apple Developer Connection.
It's called "What's New?" in
QuickTime 6.6 Developer Preview.
There are several sections of that
document that I've listed here:
B-Frame Video, H.264 Codec,
and Qt Sample Table API that will give
you all of the nitty-gritty details
about the APIs that I've mentioned.
But if you want to see it
explained by living people,
actual engineers,
come to session 217 Friday at 3:30,
supporting new video formats
in QuickTime and you can get
the information there as well.
All right, that's what's new in video.
What's happening in the
industry that's influencing us?
Well,
what's happening in the area of graphics?
I have a graphic.
See how I tied that in?
This timeline reveals in graphical
fashion that over the past 25 years,
video games have improved in their
ability to engross the consumer.
Yeah, I think that's what I meant.
In any case,
you can see the progression here.
We couldn't actually use the
images because they're copyrighted.
You see.
From the line drawings of asteroids to
the 3D models of modern video games,
you guys must really love this
stuff because you're buying it.
Now,
it's been mentioned several times during
the conference that Moore's Law drives
the ability of the processor to shrink,
to consume less power and go faster.
Well, we found that there is actually an
ancillary law together with Moore's
Law that has driven this evolution
of the graphics processing unit.
It's called Atari's Law.
Atari's Law states that the
game that you produced six
months ago isn't good enough.
[Transcript missing]
My hawk friend is back again.
You know, you can't tell if it's a
red-tailed hawk by its tail.
if it's immature.
What is QuickTime going to be doing about
all of this graphics processing power?
Now these machines have
evolved this enormous organ,
the GPU,
that was originally intended for one
purpose but as you know from evolutionary
theory these organs often wind up being
applied for other purposes as well and
the organism gains the ability to do
new things by this evolutionary process.
Well QuickTime is going to
take advantage of the GPU too
and how are we going to do it?
will get out of its way.
When QuickTime was first
introduced in 1991,
there wasn't a lot of help among
the services available on the OS.
for playing video to the screen.
There was some for sound,
but there certainly wasn't
a lot of support for
synchronizing video with audio.
So QuickTime did it all,
and it was necessary for it to do it all,
and it was very successful at it.
For years, when we talked to application
developers at conferences like this,
we said, "You focus on your area of
expertise when building your app.
You let us handle the digital media,
and you can integrate digital media
with other content that you manage."
And that story was very good,
but something happened along the way.
We've noticed that you application
developers have actually gained
expertise in the area of digital media,
and you want to do interesting
things to process digital
media in your applications,
and you don't want to turn
all of that over to us.
You want what QuickTime offers to
work in combination with services
that are available on the platform now
for really great graphics processing,
really great audio processing.
Well, we're going to make that possible.
Now you can have everything that's good
about QuickTime video and even less.
So, how are we going to achieve that?
For video,
we have defined a new abstraction
for the destination to which
video will be rendered.
We're calling it the visual context.
It's an abstraction and we intend there
to be several types of visual context.
For Tiger, we are making it available
concretely for OpenGL textures.
And so this means really great stuff.
You can get all of that great
processing power that's available
in the GPU applied to video.
You've seen some demonstrations of it.
At a high level, however,
you don't have to know anything about
OpenGL textures to gain this advantage.
If you use
this by the way is a narrative
prolepsis if you use our
high level modules the H.I.
MovieView and the QT MovieView you
have the full support from them for
visual context without you having to
do a thing and that basically means if
you use those modules and you deploy
your application on a machine that has
Quartz Extreme then you're eligible for
lots of great stuff that the GPU can
do with video however if you have
the kind of application that's doing
manipulations at the OpenGL level we have
low level APIs for you to use as well
Where to get more information?
Well,
the session is 2:15 Thursday at 2:00,
Improved Video Rendering and Playback.
In the What's New document
as part of your seed,
look at the visual context section
and information will be there for you.
All right, I said this was an omnibus.
I'm going to talk about video
and audio in the same session.
I can get away with that.
QuickTime is a media integration layer.
You don't see the core audio guys
talking about video and you won't see
the core video guys talking about audio,
but QuickTime sits on top of those
layers and we can talk about both.
Sound, of course, is spatial.
We've had support for
mono and stereo audio.
At least I'm keeping Jim awake.
That's good.
for a long time.
Is that sufficient for being able to
detect where sound is coming from?
Well, I have two ears and I knew it was
Jim as the only person laughing at that.
But we're finding that it's actually
interesting to have more than
two audio sources available to
create an enveloping experience.
This, of course, was originally available
in a movie theater.
Does anybody remember the first movie
that had support for surround sound?
[Transcript missing]
So I've name dropped Leopold
Stokowski and Harold Blum and
I'm only thirty minutes into it.
It's pretty good.
So, naturally we want to support multiple
channels and we want to support higher
resolution audio with the same richness
that I just mentioned for video.
So let's step back over to
demo one and I will show you
that you can in fact combine
some of this rich audio high-resolution
multi-channel audio using QuickTime the
media integration architecture.
Let me take some video.
I'm going to take some video
that's near and dear to my heart.
This by the way is cherry juice.
This those of you have the
QuickTime 1.0 CD-ROM from 1991
you may have seen Cherry Juice.
It used one of the original video
codecs that shipped with QuickTime 1.0
known finally as Road Pizza.
And this video was produced laboriously
by means of a series of still images.
and I'm going to take this very old
video and I'm going to combine it with
some very new audio I happen to have
Well, I'm actually going to open it up
in this QuickTime player first.
I have some sound effects here that
are actually in surround sound.
Let me play them for you.
Now this demonstrates one of
the key things about support for
multi-channel audio in QuickTime.
Did you know that QuickTime 6.6
automatically mixes down to
the abilities of the device,
the output device that you
happen to have attached?
This is 5.1 audio.
The room is only stereo.
So, I'm going to copy that segment
of audio that I happen to have,
that 5.1 audio, and I'm going to add
it to my cherry juice.
Video and now we have 1991
vintage video and audio together.
should be stopped there.
I don't think so.
I ran my movie mincer script
earlier today in another session.
I ran my movie mincer script on this
very thing and the same copy and paste
combine integrate complete digital media
technology was able to produce this.
[Transcript missing]
Now in order to do that,
I actually changed some of
the parameters to my script.
Instead of copying two second segments,
I copied segments of one fifth
of a segment and I did 40 of them
to make eight seconds of media.
But the same thing works.
That integration technology,
that power that's available to QuickTime,
when we do multi-channel audio,
we do multi-channel audio,
not just playback.
Now that was a demonstration
of some very basic combination
of audio and video together,
but we thought that it would be
valuable for you to survey the
current state of production tools.
What if you really
wanted to do something,
you don't want road pizza video in 2004,
that's what year it is, right?
You want H.264 video and what you
want to do is to have some full
screen really cool thing such as
the demonstrations of H.264 that
you saw at the keynote on Monday.
And the question is, how do you do it?
Well, fortunately we have the answer
to that question right here.
Ladies and gentlemen, introducing the
QuickTime Stupid Movie of 2004.
I'm going to project what may be
perceived as a lateness as a timeliness.
I believe that video production
requires a digital media
architecture as rich as QuickTime.
to streamline this process.
And now that we're rolling out
support for these modern video formats
and these modern audio formats,
we hope to work with you,
the tools developers and
the hardware developers,
to make this kind of production
accessible to people like me.
Thanks to those of you who prepared
the video that we showed at the
conference and for those of you
who prepared the stupid movie.
That was wonderful.
[Transcript missing]
We've introduced some APIs which
finally rationalize the ability
to get decompressed audio
out of QuickTime movies.
It's called movie audio extraction.
And this is the way we're
recommending that if you need
to get audio out of movies,
use those APIs.
We're using it ourselves when we export,
our movie exporters that can
re-encode movies to other formats.
and we also have new support in
the sequence grabber which is
QuickTime's module for capturing
media from external devices for
high resolution multi-channel audio.
It's called the SG Audio Channel.
All of those things will be
demonstrated and explained in session
213 which is tomorrow at 3:30.
And I think that you really want to
go to this one because I understand
that there's going to be a live
performance of multiple percussionists,
a narrator,
and a wandering troop of minstrels.
And they're going to be
recording multichannel.
They're going to be performing live,
so please go.
There's no extra charge for admission.
Also, there's information about
the new APIs in the very same
document I continue to reference,
the QuickTime 6.6 Developer Preview.
The section is Audio Enhancements.
Alright, so we talked about video,
we talked about graphics processing,
we talked about audio.
We've noticed that things have
been happening to make your lives
easier in developing applications.
One of them is that you don't
call waitNext event anymore.
Thank you.
It's a long time in coming, wasn't it?
But we've also noticed that
you are gaining your ability
to develop rapidly by using the
leverage of application frameworks.
Gee, it's kind of great that
we notice this stuff,
but we do usually have our
heads down producing great
video and audio like that.
It may have taken a few extra years.
But now we're aware that you're using
high-level modules in Cocoa and also in
Carbon to implement your applications.
And what we are doing in Tiger is
supplying modules that fit with
those frameworks to manage most
of your common QuickTime needs.
For you Carbon developers,
we're introducing in Tiger the H.I.
Movie View.
H.I.
Views is an object-oriented
view system that's for use
by Carbon-based applications.
H.I.
Movie View allows QuickTime media
to play as a first-class
citizen in that view framework.
I'm sorry, I have to go around to
the door in the front.
Let me show you H.I.
MovieView in action.
Now there's something interesting about
the demos that I give in this session.
This is sort of a session that's
sandwiched in between the sessions
at the beginning of the week that
officers of the company deliver,
people with titles,
people whose pictures you
see in trade publications,
and even in Newsweek.
And the sessions that come
towards the end of the week
which are very highly technical,
given by people who really know
what they're talking about.
[Transcript missing]
This demo partakes somewhat of
this in that it's a very elementary
introduction to the technology
that I just mentioned.
The predecessor to the HR view
was the Carbon control.
That is used by a
carbon-based application,
iTunes,
to display videos in the music store.
So if I go to the music store,
and let's see,
I will go to the Bob Dylan page,
and I will go to the main
place for that artist.
and I know that the music store has video
available of a performance by Bob Dylan
iTunes uses the Carbon Movie Control,
the predecessor to the H.I.
Movie View, to display its video.
And it supports the ability to display
video that's downloading from the
could you please to get off airport
if you're on check your mail later
and it can do everything that the
finder can do when it displays a
movie as well the finder is using not
the predecessor Carbon movie control
but in Tiger the finder is using H.I.
MovieView to display previews of
QuickTime media right here in the
finder you can see in iTunes it
supports scrolling a video back and
forth we can clip we can resize cool
stuff good song finder using H.I.
MovieView also supports all
that stuff as well i can get
a large preview it'll resize
I can scroll.
The H.I.
MovieView can be used in
several different contexts
within the same application.
So, for example, if I do a GetInfo,
Where'd they move it now?
If I do a get info on a media file,
the finder also can display a preview
inside of the preview pane and that
can also be a playable video as well.
Although in this particular case,
unfortunately, it's not.
This also uses the HIMovieView in line
with these other user interface elements.
If you have a carbon-based app,
you're using a view system,
HIView support rich composition,
movies can be composed
with other elements.
Alright, back to slides.
not just Carbon but also Cocoa.
Oh, by the way, there'll be more
information about the H.I.
MovieView in tomorrow's session 215.
That's the improved video
rendering and playback and
several original demos of H.I.
MovieView will be available there.
but as I mentioned not
only Carbon but Cocoa 2.
We are introducing in Tiger the
Cocoa Qt Kit and we are making
available to you Cocoa developers all
of the richness of the manipulations
that you can perform on media in a
form that should be very familiar to
you using all of the same constructs
and all of the same programming
techniques that you have learned
to develop your Cocoa applications.
Cocoa of course already has
basic QuickTime support in
NSMovie and NSMovieView.
With the Cocoa Qt kit we're going
quite a bit further beyond that.
We have classified QuickTime behaviors
and introduced Cocoa classes
based on those behaviors that
make manipulations of movies,
tracks and media available to you in
Objective-C using the Cocoa framework.
And of course we have
a class for your GUI,
the QtMovieView that's very rich.
It goes quite a bit beyond what you
could do in NSMovieView to date.
Now, Cocoa not only supports
modern applications with
graphical user interfaces,
it also supports other
types of modules as well.
Bundles, plugins, command line tools.
But don't take my word for it.
Let's look.
Now when I went through a Cocoa training,
when I learned how to write
an application in Cocoa,
several of you might have had
exactly the same experience I had.
I learned with the expenses application.
Does this ring a bell for anyone?
The Expenses application is the
application that you build if you're
working through the Learning Cocoa book
from O'Reilly or if you go to
any number of training sessions
that show you how to do basic
application development in Cocoa.
And this is a pretty cool app.
This allows me to keep
track of my expenses like,
let's see, when I cross the
Golden Gate Bridge today.
That cost me five bucks.
And when I parked in the
Mission Street garage,
let me guess,
that's going to be about 16 bucks.
Well, that's kind of good.
I can also attach notes, textual notes.
Let's see.
I'm on level six.
To each of my expenses.
So that's nice.
I can browse through my expenses.
It'll keep running total.
I can save this document
to edit it later.
The NS table view displaying
this set of expenses.
And the NS text view,
which displays these textual notes,
are subviews of an NS split view,
which allow me to do this
kind of cool stuff here.
So I can resize the
different subviews if I want.
When I look at that app
as a multimedia developer,
I don't see an expenses app.
I see a playlist editor.
So what I did was I took the expenses
application exactly as I completed it
when I completed my Cocoa training,
which I did almost as well
as I did in the fifth grade.
and I made from that expenses
app using the same constructs,
in fact the same lines of code,
a playlist editor.
I added a little bit to it and
I changed it around a little bit so
I can add multiple movies at a time.
So I'm going to add some items
to my playlist and they show
up in the upper pane which is
once again an NS table view.
And I've renamed my
categories to file name,
display name, which may be different.
That's a narrative prolepsis.
And display the duration using an
NS formatter to show the number in
seconds with two decimal places.
I could have written a better
NS formatter to show minutes and
seconds but it was Monday afternoon.
What do you want?
and the new features of the new
The view below has changed from
an NSTextView to a QtMovieView.
When I select any one of
these items in my playlist,
the movie that represents the
playable media for the file that
that playlist item refers to is
displayed in the QtMovieView below.
The NSSplitView works
exactly as you would expect.
Maybe it will even work if I play it.
so I can do the resizing
while I'm playing,
resizing of the window,
resizing of the view.
I also did a fancy little thing.
I'm listening for the notification
that comes from the class QtMovie that
tells me when the movie is done so
that I can listen for that notification
in my document controller and tell
the NS table view above to display the
next item in the list and the QtMovie
view below to display the next movie.
Now this NS slider thing,
this NS control on the bottom,
that's actually functional.
It's not just displaying the
current time of the movie.
I can also click on different
Hi, I'm Kevin Calhoun,
and I'm the developer of QuickTime.
There are places on the web
that allow you to download the
version of Expenses that's similar
to the one that I showed you.
There's really very little additional
code there than there is for that.
We will make this,
unfortunately it's not available
in your preview of Tiger,
but we'll make the code for this
available in the coming weeks via
the Apple Developer Connection.
You'll see that all of the same
things that allow you to do rapid
application development in Cocoa,
you can now do with
QtKit using QuickTime.
but it's not just about
applications that have a GUI.
It's also about other types
of executable modules as well.
With QtKit you can develop command
line tools that you can use in batch
processing for media production.
and because it's very difficult
to type at this time of day,
I have my canned command
lines right here.
member of our team developed a command
line tool called recompressor that takes
several command line parameters you
tell it well here's the movie exporter
that I want to use in this case 3GPP
here's the source movie that I want you
to recompress and here's the destination
movie that I want you to recompress to.
So if I execute this line in
terminal I told you there's going
to be a terminal demo you saw the
graphic earlier on I didn't lie.
It's going to recompress this DV video
clip to 3G and it's now available for me.
I can send it out to my 3G
handset and it'll play something
like this using MPEG-4 video.
And AMR audio.
Thank you.
I wish I could tell you more
about QtKit in this session,
but this is the omnibus
QuickTime presentation.
Back to slides, please.
There are more details
tomorrow morning at 9:00.
If you can be here at
5:00 on a Wednesday,
you can be here at 9:00 on a Thursday.
New directions in using
QuickTime with Cocoa.
Go to that session.
There'll be lots of great stuff and
I promise the demos there will be very,
very rich because you can do
really great real-life production
stuff with these tools that we're
making available to you in Tiger.
The section of your What's New in
QuickTime 6.6 document that
covers this material is called
Qt Kit Framework for QuickTime.
We have other documents
that are available as well,
a reference and a tutorial that
you'll have to come to the session
tomorrow to get the the pointers to.
Okay.
So you've seen, I've convinced you now,
QuickTime is a cross-platform
media architecture.
We've demoed only the things that
are available in Mac OS X and focused
on the things that are new in Tiger,
but these same media
services for playback,
editing, creation and so forth are
also available on Windows.
All the Windows 32,
the Win32 series of releases.
By means of QuickTime,
you can simplify your use of all these
variegated media container formats,
video and audio formats,
external devices for capture,
and so forth.
But have we done enough for you?
Our answer was, no we haven't.
We want to take it another step
further because we realize that
people don't just produce media,
they classify it as well.
How much did you pay to
come to this conference?
Remember to get your money's worth.
people attach classifying information
to media in the course of production
in order to identify media that's
going to be used in later steps in
production or to identify media when
it's delivered to the end user and
they tag this media or classify it with
several different formats of metadata.
There are as many formats for metadata
as there are formats for media itself
and maybe more and several of you
in the back of the room might be
developing your own formats even now.
We've noticed that for example
for MP3 files there are many
more formats for tagging than
there are players in the world.
What is going on?
You can tag your MP3
files with ID3 version 1,
ID3 version 2, Lyrics 3, Lyrics 1, APE.
I don't know what these things mean.
It's just confusing.
but what we want to do is to make
sense of all these metadata formats
because hey we're QuickTime.
We are the media integration
architecture and we can do it.
So what we are doing in Tiger is
introducing APIs that give
you access to media metadata.
You can be concerned about the specific
metadata format if you need to be or
you can simply leave the details of the
format up to us and get the information
out that you're interested in.
How does it work?
When you open a movie you ask
QuickTime for a reference to metadata
attached either to the movie,
to a specific track or to specific media.
You can tell us if you're interested in
a specific format such as iTunes music
store metadata or classic QuickTime user
data or you can just say give me
a reference to whatever it's got.
Then once you have that reference you
can iterate through the items in that
metadata by means of keys that are
specific to a metadata format or a
set of keys that we've defined that
we intend to work in common among all
the metadata formats that we support.
So if you want to get for example
the display name of the media
you merely have to say give me
a reference to the metadata,
find me the display name
please and give it to me.
And whether that display name is
stored in classic QuickTime user data,
in iTunes music store metadata
or in new QuickTime user data,
it's not necessarily a
reference to the metadata.
So if you want to get for example
QuickTime metadata we've defined
a new format to overcome the
limitations of classic user data.
We will find it for you
and we will deliver it.
And I have a demonstration
of that right over here.
Data potato do what?
Do what?
I have a demonstration of it.
I'm going to back up
over here on demo two,
please.
All right.
So what I want to show you here is that
it's possible now for the very first time
for QuickTime Player to
display in this demo.
It's not the most impressive
demo that you'll see at the show,
but it's probably the nearest
and dearest to my heart.
So I'm going to make sure that it works.
is presenting a presentation on
the new features of QuickTime API.
Yes, it's late night at the piano bar.
Okay, here we go.
On demo one,
I've opened up an MP3 file which
contains an ID3 version 2 tag.
that includes the name,
the display name of the file and that
display name is stored as UTF-16,
it's Unicode.
And for the very first time
QuickTime Player can extract that
name from the metadata in the
format ID3 version 2 and display
it in the title bar of the window.
And what is it doing?
What is QuickTime Player doing
in order to do that?
All it's doing,
it's a preview of tomorrow's session,
is calling the method QtMovieDisplayName.
And underneath the covers,
the QtKit is calling upon the
QuickTime metadata services
that I described to fetch
that piece of information out.
It doesn't worry about the
format of the metadata,
it just says, "Give me what I want,"
and it delivers it.
But we can go a little bit
further than that as well with
metadata and in fact I have.
And I did it in the application
that I showed you earlier,
my simple playlist editor.
I complicated it just a little bit
by adding the following feature.
This is a Cocoa application.
So what I did was extended the
Objective-C class QtMovie by
implementing a category on that
class with the following method,
artwork.
What I want to do when I instantiate
a QtMovie is to fetch the artwork
out of that movie wherever it may be.
And I implemented that method artwork
by using the QuickTime metadata
APIs that I described earlier.
What I then do with that artwork
is I actually attach it to
the movie as a video track.
This application is
highly visually oriented.
What if I want to play some music files?
Let me preview these very same
music files for you in the finder.
If I click on one of them,
you'll see the finder merely
displays the standard QuickTime movie
controller because the only
media in there is sound media.
But in my application,
which is taking advantage of
support for QuickTime metadata,
if I select these audio-only files,
which nevertheless contain
cover art in their metadata,
I can do the following trick.
as I described earlier I can actually
display the cover art as a video
track in parallel with the audio.
So if I go through these music files
from the iTunes music store I can display
the cover art as part of my movie.
You can do stuff like this too.
We know that there are many metadata
formats that you will be interested in as
part of your production tools or as part
of delivery if you're displaying media.
And what we want to hear from you is
what metadata formats interest you?
What kind of stuff do you want to
read in the course of preparing
media or delivering media and
present to the user or make
available in the production process?
As I mentioned, in Tiger,
we're going to be supporting
QuickTime user data,
QuickTime metadata, a new format that
overcomes the limitations,
and iTunes Music Store metadata.
This MP3 stuff I did by
way of demonstration,
we're not actually planning to roll
out support for MP3 cover art in Tiger,
unless you all email us and say
that you can't live without it.
[Transcript missing]
The document of what's new in
QuickTime 6.6 does contain information
about the QuickTime Metadata APIs.
We will be posting sample code as the
release process moves along towards the
eventual delivery of Tiger and yet you've
come to the right place to find all the
information that will be covered in the
show sessions about QuickTime Metadata.
Now, let's see.
It says here I have 11 minutes and 6.
I don't have to talk fast yet.
I'm okay.
Don't worry.
but I do have more to say and that is
that we've shown you that QuickTime is
a digital media architecture and
integration architecture that gives
you all these great services and we're
extending it new media formats support
for new stuff metadata not just media.
But you don't have to wait for
us to extend the QuickTime media
architecture because in fact the
architecture is itself modular and
extensible and the very same coding
techniques that we use to add new
support to QuickTime you can use too.
We haven't made this point at
developer conferences over the last
couple of years and I wanted to be
sure that we mentioned it this year.
Several of you are new to the
platform and new to QuickTime.
You don't have to email Apple and say
you know if only you supported my media
container format I'd like you a lot or
if only you implemented the following
video codec you would be my friend.
You can do it yourself because
QuickTime defines the component APIs that
allow you to implement those things and
sample code for this stuff is available.
At the Apple developer connection
website on the sample code pages.
Many different component
types are available.
I have an example of a
movie import component.
Now one of my favorite
places in the file system,
I don't have to talk faster
but I can't pause any longer.
One of my favorite
places in the file system
is right here in /library/quicktime.
There's cool stuff in there.
What's in this particular directory,
my /library/quicktime is my modified mp3
import component that implements all that
cool ID3 stuff that I just showed you.
That's how I extended QuickTime for
the purposes of my demo.
I will also extend it slightly further.
Now you know that on the platform we
do have support for decoding AAC audio.
We rolled it out with our
MPEG-4 support in QuickTime 6.
However, we have not to date had support
for the container format .aac.
.aac or ADTS I believe it is,
is a format that stores AAC audio
packets and several encoders produce
a stream of AAC audio in this format.
If I were to drag this .aac
file on top of keynote however,
it would sadly reject it.
If only I had a QuickTime movie import
component that knew how to read the
audio packets from that container
format and create a QuickTime movie.
Oh wait, I did that.
I implemented an import
audio file component.
And those of you who are familiar with
Core Audio know exactly how I did this.
Core Audio, in fact,
a service on Mac OS X,
already knows how to parse
these .aac components.
I didn't actually have to
write any hard code to do this.
All I had to do was to make use of
Core Audio's ability to do that and
to make a movie out of a .aac file.
So, all I need to do here is to move that
cool thing into /library/quicktime.
and then I do have to quit Keynote
and relaunch it so that Keynote and
QuickTime can match up together again.
Keynote can
[Transcript missing]
QuickTime uses what's known
as the core services component
manager in order to load and to
invoke these extensible modules.
These modules that do movie
import and video image
decompression and all this stuff.
We call them components.
But there's nothing really
fancy going on in the runtime.
QuickTime deploys the component manager,
uses the component manager on
both Mac OS X and on Windows.
But the component manager merely uses the
native dynamic library loading mechanism
that's available on the platform and
the format of dynamically loadable
libraries that's defined by the platform.
So the question is why can't
I implement these extensibility
modules for QuickTime in Objective-C?
And the answer is why of course you can.
Now, there were some problems involving
language runtime and stuff that
I don't understand too well
that made it dangerous to do
this with previous releases.
The good news is that we've
ironed all of this out.
And starting with Tiger,
you can deploy movie import components
of the sort that I just demonstrated
or any other of the types of
components that you saw listed
earlier implemented in Objective-C,
taking advantage of all of the
great stuff in the Cocoa frameworks.
Let me show you what
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
So the component that
I chose to implement here,
once again, it was Saturday.
I didn't really have a lot of time to
implement support for media format,
so I stole support that
existed somewhere else.
You may already be aware that
in AppKit there's a class
called NSBitmapImageRep,
and this class knows how to write
a number of still image formats.
One of the still image formats
that it knows how to write is GIF.
That's a still image format, by the way,
that QuickTime doesn't know how to write.
So all that I did,
this is literally all that I did,
we'll post the sample code shortly,
is define a class for
a graphics exporter.
And I define the following methods:
init with imageRep.
So what's going to happen here is that
an instance of this class is going
to be presented with an imageRep.
Then the method that's going
to be invoked is export.
and the information about
the image is going to be,
by whatever means necessary,
is going to be turned into the format
that this exporter knows how to
write to and it returns that exported
image in an instance of NSData.
And all of the other work about writing
the file out or writing to wherever
the thing has to go for the purposes of
however it's being used in QuickTime are
taken care of at a higher level.
And this is all the code that
I needed to write in Objective-C in
order to implement this exporter.
This still image exporter,
which is in secret sauce.
Well, actually it got moved.
Export GIF component.
Move that once again
to /library/quicktime.
and this time when
I launch QuickTime Player,
it's going to gain the
ability to write to GIF files.
What I'll do is open one of
my favorite movies once again.
and I will export using
QuickTime Player this movie
to a sequence of still images.
Now you see that we have this
support for exporting video to a
sequence of images or any visual
media and we have several presets.
QuickTime knows how to do
JPEG and B-Met--what's that,
some competitor's image format?
but what I want to do is export to
GIF and only after my graphics exporter
that supports GIF was installed was this
ability added to the media architecture.
What I want to do is export this
movie at two frames per second and
I'm going to put them in my pictures
directory and here I go writing
frames of this movie to GIF files
and sure enough if I open
one of them at random,
there it is a GIF file
in 256 glorious colors.
I think that's the first time in a while
that GIF has gotten a round of applause.
[Transcript missing]